Cosmic Rift Players League is open to all subscribers and squads/teams.

Cosmic Rift Players League is a player run league and is moderated by both the user community and the league refs.


Squad 4 vs. 4 Rules

*Pilots

Pilots can only be on one squad competing in the league. 
Pilots may fly any ship of their choosing but it must not be the same ship as another teammate is currently using.
Pilots must be registered on the CRPL website by their captains and be assigned to a squad in order to compete.  
Pilots must be in the squad in Cosmic Rift and appear on the ?squadlist command for the zone in which the match will take place. 


*Squads

Can have as many pilots as they wish 
The official Cosmic Rift Squad Leader must be registered with the CRPL site in order for the squad to participate. 


*Start of match

Each match will last 40 minutes 
A squad gets 4 pilot slots with 3 lives apiece. 
A pilot can use a maximum of 3 lives. 
A squad must have 2 pilots present at the start of the match or forfeit. 
Any pilot slots not filled at the start of the match will lose one life every 10 minutes. No pilot slot can become active after 30 minutes has elapsed. 


*Scoring

Each kill inflicted on the other squad will be scored as a point. 
A friendly fire kill will score as a point for the opposing squad but will not count as a kill for the offending pilot for individual scores. 
At the end of a match the score will be announced. 


*Lag or any other reason that forces the player into spec

Teams get 2 warnings if any pilot lags out. After 2 warnings the following rules apply to all pilots on the team. 
If a pilot lags out, that pilot slot loses one life. 
A pilot lags out when a substitution has not been announced prior to going to spec or leaving the arena. 


*Ship Changes

Only allowed after the pilots death.
Must announce the "Ship Change" in public chat or can also state "sc" to make it simple for Ref to see. 
Failing to announce a ship change after death OR changing ships when death has not just occurred results in a penalty. 
Penalty for an illegal ship change is the subtraction of 1 life from pilot. 
When a SC occurs, a ship will have a full compliment of specials.

*Substitutions

Are permitted at any time during match.
No more than one sub per slot is allowed. 
Pilot subbed in will have a fully prized ship.
Once a pilot has played in a slot during the match he cannot re-enter the game after a substitution. 
Must be announced in open chat "Joe Blaster subbing for CannonBoy". If this is not announced prior to substitution a life will be deducted as per Lag rule. 
The pilot leaving the game must be out of play before the incoming pilot may enter. At no time should there be more that 4 pilots on the playfield per squad. 


*Finishing a match

Elimination of all available lives on the opposing squad. 
In order to win one team must have 3 or more points and a 2 kill lead on opponent team. 
Scores are final when 40 minutes have elapsed. Ties are allowed in regular season play. 
Opposing squad not showing up with 2 or more pilots (forfeiture). 


*Playoffs and League Champs

To be determined 
