Factions are important part of the political world of Titan. Currently, the factions operating in Twin Peaks are:

Titan Militia: Orginally founded in the first revoluition of Titan, this is the native military force. Multiple colonies on Titan provide and train voluniteers for service. Having thrown the Collective off the moon two times, this faction stands ready to defend itself from all threats.

Collective Remnant: During the second Luna revolt, which spread to Earth itself, the Collective was struck a mortal blow - Earth was destoryed in the process. Whats left of the government and survivors of the old order fled to the Jovian moons to regroup. Now they are back at Titan, looking to remain a the guiding voice of whats left of Humanity.

Faraday Pirates: When the second revolution of Titan ended with the Titan Milita claiming victory, one of the supports, John Morgan vanished without a trace. His group of raiders mostly folded into what became the Milita of today. Those who didnt care for the new government, or simply werent done marauding rejected the merger and followed Captain Horus Faraday. Today they operate from debris fields and cave bases, raiding Collective and Titan vessels both.

Europan Mercs: Someone always has a job to get, sabatoge, or kill something. These mercs have been through it all. Twin Peaks is a major export and research hub, and it stands to reason someone's paying these boys to get them a good slice of the pie. Who, no one knows.

Tethys Consortium: Head by the Gehlen family. A large megacorp group owned by the Gehlens and other rich shareholders. They have always been a major political and business figure on Titan since the Tethys colony ship saved Titan years back. Now based out of their namesake moon, they are opertating a small armed group in Twin Peaks to ensure current and potental investments remain theirs.

Io Military: When Titan, Ganymede and other key moons came together in talks of a "United Moons" group, Io was not included. Io has recently launched a war with Ganymede, and now is attacking Titan outposts in revenge for assisting in Ganymede's favor. They also hold a grudge against the collective, attacking them when and where they can.

Starfire Corps: Based out of Dione, this roaming fleet is made up of renegade ex-Collective navy vessels. The Starfire Corps was orginally an elite naval group focused on surpressing rebels and protesters, and they did so rather brutally. They view the Remnant as a weak former shell of what it was and no longer hold any loyality to the old order. 

Atlas Vanguard: When Atlas's obrit was finally to a point where the colonies there no longer could stay, they boarded whatever vessels they could and took to Callisto. They were not welcomed. Currently at war with eachother, the fighting as spread to Titan, dispite Callisto's memebership in the United Moons. Atlas forces pirate and salavage anything they can to survive. Its supected either Starfire or the Remnant is somehow responisble for the decay in their namesake moon's orbit.

Callisto Irregulars: While the bulk of the Atlas/Callisto war happens on Callisto itself, parts of the Atlas fleet fled to Titan. Callisto itself is a United Moons memeber, but milita and nonmilitary zealots hunt Atlas forces wherever they go. Its said that Atlas destoryed a hostipal ship evaculating mostly childern. This has lead to a blood fueled hunt for Vanguard forces, and no one will stand in thier way.

Titanium Pirates: Ships in the outer ring are typically constructed out of Titanium alloys. Saturn's moons happen to be very rich in Titanium. Alot of profit is to be made from mining the resource. Even more when you can just take it for free. Titanium pirates typically vent the crew out of the ships with high powered mass drivers and then gut and cut ships within hours. Landside, mines, refineries, and orbital elevators all are targeted for raids. 

Martian Consortium: Megacorps run Mars now that the Collective is far to weak to control them. The Martian Consortium seeks to take over the Tethys's business, by any means. Including hostile takeovers at the point of a gun. Free from any law that it respects, they have the resources and the balls to take on colonial forces if they have to.

Galland Slavers: Not even the Collective could contain these scumbags when they were in control of Titan. During all the wars, the prison colony at Galland, Titan, overtook the govermental forces there. Now its a den for slavers, pirates, and general not nice people.

Vaarsburg Freeholders: Vaarsburg was built as a refugee colony by the United Moons. Consisting of Luna and Earth surviviors, Jovian and Saturnian colonial refugees, and anyone else displaced by the years of fighting across the system. The colonists have set up their own government, a corrupt and shady group that has expelled the United Moon officals and declared themselves independant. They are running low on supplies; anything goes.

Low Life Thugs: The gangs of New Taiwan took in alot of the seedier elements of the refugees over the years, and the stock piles of salvaged weapons and gear keep them going. They are a tribal style group, with 'heads' of the element gangs that came together acting as a tribal council. They are currently fighting the Galland slavers and other pirate gangs in a turf fight for the resources and credits of Twin Peaks.