~B 
~1Fleet Play Guide

~6NOTE: This guide is assuming you have read the Infantry Online Guide to become familiar with the Infantry User Interface.


~4Introduction

~2The first and most important thing that needs to be said about Fleet is that it is an extremely team oriented game.  Players that are not coordinating with their teams are more of a hindrance then a help.  Listen to what your teams objectives are, and play a role that will help meet those objectives.  Mining resources will help your team more then mindlessly engaging in combat that serves no purpose.  Pick your battles.  Fighting to protect miners or destroying and enemies miners and defenses are useful to your team.  Simply killing the enemy for fun is not.

With that said, it is also important to pick one or several people to make decisions for the team.  Listen to what they need you to do and get it done.  Needless squabbling over what your teams course of action should be will only end in your defeat.  There are many ways to win in Fleet, so don't think you have all of the answers.  Trust those your team has decided to put in command.


~4How to get started:

~2All players start the game with a Miner ship.  This ship allows you to collect Eljaycium Ore resources that are spread about space.  Turn these resources into your Command Post for Build Point (BP) that go to the team.  If the game has been progressing before you join, you may have a Supply Satellite that will allow you to change your ship.  To access the Satellites either fly up to it and press the Space bar to bring up a menu or fly close to it and right click with the mouse to bring up a menu.  Then select the option desired.  There are several types of satellites that are described below.

The controls are very similar to the other Infantry zones so see the main guide on how to join the game, maneuver, and fire.
To become a gunner on one of your capital ships, fly up to it and hit the space bar and select the number of any open position you wish to man.  Or right click on the capital ship, and select the open position you wish to man.


~4Objective:

~2The main goal of this game is to destroy your enemies Command Post while defending your own.  To do this, it will be necessary for your team to mine the minerals spread throughout the map.  Using these minerals will allow your team to build defenses for your Command Post and build the ships necessary to destroy the enemies Command Post.  The ships and defenses are described below.  Remember that mining is extremely valuable to the team, and should never be looked at as a coward's task.



~1Base Class Ships

~2These ships are the backbone of your fleet.  You start the game as a Miner.  From the Supply Satellite you can change your ship to another base class ship.  Be sure the ship you choose is useful to your team.  If not, switch to a new one at a Supply Satellite.  After death, you will reappear as the same base class ship you were when you died. These ships have no Hit Points, they rely completely on their energy. If their energy hits 0 they explode.


~4Fighter:
~2	Weapons: Dual Light MassDriver
		 Single Warshrike Missile
The Fighters primary role is covering the fleet while on maneuvers and defending the main base.  Faster then a Gunship, they can provide quick strikes on enemy ships.  Fighters also carry warshrike missiles,  Use these missiles to take down enemy capital ships.  Fire the MassDriver with care as it uses up the precious energy that makes up your health.

~4Gunship:
~2	Weapons: Dual Warshrike Missiles
		 Single Light MassDriver
	Purchasable: 5 FireHawk missiles
The Gunship has quite a different role then the Fighter as it differs in the way it fights.  It is not as fast as the Fighter but is able to strafe side to side to avoid incoming fire alot better than the Fighter.  A Single Light MassDriver packs less of a punch then the Fighters Dual MassDriver but the Dual Warshrike Missiles more than make up for it.  Use these to help take down an enemy bases defenses and damage lighter capital ships.  The Gunship is also capable of purchasing 5 FireHawk Missiles at a time from the Supply Satellite, use them to take down capital ships.

~4Miner:
~2	Weapons: Single Light MassDriver
	Utility Item: Mine Creator
The Miner has a unique role.  It uses Eljaycium Ore to create minefields.  These mines are quite effective to smaller craft and do minor damage to capital ships.  It takes some time for these mines to arm when dropped so keep this in mind when creating the field.  They are useful for protecting the base and blocking enemy capital ship escape routes.  It can see Eljaycium Ore on the radar.  It can carry a fair amount of Eljaycium.  

~4Scout:
~2	Weapons: Kilowatt Particle Beam
		 Single Warshrike Missile
	Utility Item: Sensor Array
The scout is important in keeping the team informed on what is going on throughout the map.  Not only is it fast, it can see minerals and ships on radar much further away then other ships.  By using the Sensor Array it can also detect stealthed vessels so is vital in detecting incoming capital ships.

~4Fabricator:
~2	Weapons: Single Light MassDriver
	Utility Item:  Autorepair
While not the most glamorous ship to fly, the Fabricator plays one of the most vital roles in the fleet.  Not only can it collect more minerals then the other ships using a ship only it can fly, the Command Carrier, it also builds all of the ships and structures for the team.  You must work with your team to coordinate what needs to be built and get the team using what you have constructed.  You can also use it's Auto Repair utility to fix structures and capital ships.  To do this you must right-click on the ship or structure to be repaired and click on the appropriate system.  Repairing does cost a bit of energy so use it with caution if there are enemies close by.



~1Utility Ships:

~6At present there is only one utility ship, the Transport. 

~4Transport:
~2	Cost: 50 BP
	Weapons: None
	Purchasable: None
	Utility: None

The Transports sole purpose is to collect resources.  It can store more then any other ship by far except for the Command Carrier.  It is very vulnerable due to it's speed, lack of weapons, and size, so only fly this ship if your collecting Eljaycium Ore otherwise your a dead duck if you take it into battle.



~1Capital Ships:


~4Bomber:
~2	Cost: 200 BP
	Weapons: Plasma Bomb Launcher
	Purchasable: 5 Deathfist missiles, 5 Firehawk missiles
	Crew Seats:  Tail Gunner

Only purchasable by the Collective Navy the bomber is used for coordinated attacks at enemy bases.  While not as effective as some of the larger capital ships in this role, several of them in a group can often single handedly not only cripple but even remove an enemy base.   Good bomber pilots will at least cripple the enemy by removing their defensive satellites so that the larger ships can finish off their main base.  A tail gunner is also helpful for keeping harassing enemy fighters from chasing the bomber down.

~4Corvette:
~2	Cost: 200 BP
	Weapons: Megawatt Plasma Cannon
		 Dual Kilowatt Plasma
	Purchasable: 5 Firehawk missiles
	Crew Seats: Dual Kilowatt Plasma Turret

A medium sized ship used mainly as an anti-fighter support platform.  Keep base class ships away from the fleet. 

~4Missile Corvette:
~2	Cost: 400 BP
	Weapons: Dual Firehawk Launcher
		 Dual Kilowatt Plasma
	Purchasable: 5 Firehawk Missiles
	Utility: Stealth Generator
	Crew Seats:  Dual Kilowatt Plasma Turret

Basically an upgraded Corvette only purchasable by the Titan Navy. Use the Stealth Generator to keep you presence a secret from enemy radar.  This medium sized ship can harass the enemies base quite effectively with its Dual Firehawk Launcher and also help keep base class ships away from the fleet.

~4Frigate:
~2	Cost: 600 BP
	Weapons: Gigawatt Plasma Cannon
	Purchasable: None
	Utility: Sensor Array
		 Stealth Generator
	Crew Seats: Dual FireHawk Turret
		    Weapons Control
		    Purchasable: 2 Plasma Torpedoes, 5 Deathfist missiles, 5 Firehawk missiles

One of the larger capital ships the Frigate is useful in taking down enemy capital ships and heavily damaging the enemy base. The Weapons Control position is capable of repairing the ship on the fly.

~4Missile Frigate:
~2	Cost: 1000 BP
	Weapons: Gigawatt Plasma Cannon
	Purchasable: None
	Utility: Sensor Array
		 Stealth Generator
	Crew Seats: Dual FireHawk Turret
		    Weapons Control
		    Purchasable: 2 Plasma Torpedoes, 5 Deathfist missiles, 5 Firehawk missiles

Only Purchasable by the Collective Navy the Missile Frigate is useful in taking down enemy capital ships and heavily damaging the enemy base. The main difference from a regualr Frigate is the two Warshrike Missile pods, one on each side of it, capable of firing 8 Warshrike Missiles at a time. This weapon is operated by the Weapons Control. 

~4Command Carrier:
~2	Cost: 500 BP
	Weapons: Dual 75mm MassDriver
	Purchasable: None
	Utility: Stealth Generator
	         Hyperportal
	Crew Seats: Flak Battery
		      
The Carrier is an unique vehicle, and can only be piloted by Fabricators.  It can be used in both offense and defense.  Take it into battle with the rest of your fleet and provide support by using the Hyperportal to summon Fighter support.  The Gunships can board the Carrier, load up 5 FireHawk Missiles and attack the enemy ships.  Keep yourself stealthed because you don't want to draw attention to yourself because the on board Flak Cannon can only defend with limited range but it is very effective in defending against enemy base class ships.

~4Collective Destroyer:
~2	Cost: 1200 BP
	Weapons:  Dual 75mm MassDriver
	Purchasable: 5 Deathfist missiles, 5 Firehawk missiles
	Utility: Sensor Array
	         Stealth Generator
	Crew Seats: MD Turret
		    Flak Battery
		    Weapons Control
		    Purchasable: 5 Plasma Torpedoes, 5 Deathfist missiles, 5 Firehawk missiles

~4Titan Destroyer:
~2	Cost: 1200 BP
	Weapons:  Gigawatt Plasma Cannon
	Purchasable: 5 Deathfist missiles, 5 Firehawk missiles
	Utility: Sensor Array
	         Stealth Generator
	Crew Seats: Dual FireHawk Turret
		    Flak Battery
		    Weapons Control
		    Purchasable: 5 Plasma Torpedoes, 5 Deathfist missiles, 5 Firehawk missiles


At present, the Destroyer is the terror of space.  It's ability to strike bases with it's torpedoes and defend itself from attack are awesome.  Their Flak Cannons may have a limited range but when they hit smaller craft, watch them pop.  The Collective Navy's version's Weapon Control can use the Spinal MassDriver which eats through bases and ships alike. While the Titan Navy's Weapon Control has a Dual Gigawatt Plasma Cannon. If you see that your enemy has one or more of these, hit them with everything you got because if one of these gets to close to your Command Post it can be Game Over.
	 


~1Defense Satellites


~2Base defense is extremely important as killing your Command Post is the enemies primary objective.  Place them in groups of three to get the most firepower focusing on the enemy targets. 

~4Defense Drone:
~2	Cost: 50 BP
	Weapons: Plasma AA
	Range:  Long
Useful for fending off enemy Fighters

~4GunSat:
~2	Cost: 100 BP
	Weapons: Megawatt Particle Beam
	Range: Long
Is able to fire at both Fighters and Capital Ships.

~4KillSat
~2	Cost: 200 BP
	Weapons: Plasma Projector
	Range: Long
Useful for fending off enemy Capital Ships.



~1Main Satellites


~4Command Post Satellite
~2	Cost: N/A
	Weapons: Plasma Cannon
	Sells:  Refines Minerals
		Defense Drones
		SupplySat
	           
The Command Post is the primary base for your Fleet.  You only get one and if it's destroyed, you lose the game so protect it at all costs.  It is here that you will also refine the Eljaycium you collect throughout space initially.  Building a Supply Satellite from here will not only let you build more advanced structures but will also allow you to change to the other base class ships such as Fighters, Gunships, etc.  It has some defense on its own with the Plasma cannon, but building other defense satellites is a must.

~4Supply Satellite:
~2	Cost: 500 BP
	Weapons: Dual Plasma AA
	Utility: Class Change
	Sells:  Plasma Torpedoes
		Firehawk Missiles
		Deathfist Missiles
		Fabrication Satellite
		Transports
	

The Supply satellite will allow you to progress your technology further by allowing you to build a Fabrication Satellite.  It also allows you to purchase missiles and torpedoes.

~4Fabrication Satellite:
~2	Cost: 500 BP
	Weapons: Dual Plasma AA
	Sells:  Corvettes
		SpaceDock 
		Outpost Satellite
		Bombers (Collective)
		Missile Corvettes (Titan)
		GUNSATs


The Fabrication satellite allows you to build the more advanced and deadly ships. 

~4SpaceDock:
~2	Cost: 2000 BP
	Weapons: Dual Plasma AA
	Utility: Repair
	Sells:  Frigates
		Missile Frigates (Collective)
		Destroyers
		Command Carriers
		KillSats


The SpaceDock allows you to build the most advanced and deadly ships in the game. Also allows all capital ships to repair themselves.

~4Refinery
~2	Cost: 1500 BP
	Weapons: None
	Utility: Refine Ore

The refinery can be used to get more Build Points from your Eljaycium Ore than you would refining it at the Command Post. It is very vulnerable to enemy ships so keep it safe.


~1Purchasable Weapons

~4FireHawk Missiles
~2Medium Explosive Damage. Available from SupplySat.

~4Deathfist Missiles
~2High Explosive Damage. Available from SupplySat

~4Plasma Torpedoes
~2Very High Explosive Damage. Available from SupplySat.


~1General Strategy

~2Coming soon. 

~6Updated 3/28/2008 by AYB.
~5Original game created by Yankee.
~B
