Welcome to TerraFirma City

You will start off as a conscript with 5 characturistic points in your inventory. 
You can recieve up to 10 more by doing Missions. These are optional. 

To see more info on the missions, Esc> Help..> Missions Help 
This is a comprehensive guide to the missions currently available.

The characturistic points are to be spend at the Character Vendor. 
This is found in the market place at Coords of M5, 999,342

You have 5 Characturistics, each one gives you different statistics for your character. 
You may have up to 5 per characturistic.

The characturistics available are :

Agility
Energy
Health
Stamina
Strength

Agility : This characturistic makes you accelerate faster, it also effects any 
vehicle you are in control off.

Energy : This characteristic makes your maximum energy increase. Energy level 
increments are 15, 30, 45, 60, and 75.

Health : This characteristic makes your overall health. Health level 
increments are 4, 8, 12, 16 and 20.

Stamina : This characteristic increases your top run speed. This skill effects 
any vehicle you control as well.

Strength : This characteristic makes you stronger and able to carry more. 
Strength level increments are 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10.


Once you've selected your characturistics, Buy some Rifle Rounds, and head 
on to the newbie area to pick up some much needed Experience and cash,
but be careful not to kill other conscripts with your grenades and rifle 
as you will spend time in the brig.

Once you have the experience and cash needed to progress. It's time to choose a career.
For a full guide on all the classes available Esc> Help..> Class Selection Help
This guide will tell you what each division is capable of doing. So when you choose 
which division you would like to make your career path, you will of been well informed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is there to do in terrafirma?

Missions - Missions are available in several forms, giving various prizes/rewards.
Some are dependant on which faction you join. 
For more info on missions check out the mission help in the help menu. Esc> Help..>Mission Help

Flag - Around the city within various major buildings there are Resource Points. 
Control these points to recieve experience, points and cash rewards. To go with these Resource Points
there are a series of random flags to own. The Resource points and flag systems are both seperate. 
However the more you own of each the higher the rewards you will recieve.

Bounty/Street Rape -The higher your bounty the more points and experience as well as cash you 
shall recieve when you kill enemy units.  There are 3 Bounty standards available to carry, carrying
these standards increase your experience and points rewards every period.

Vehicles - There are many different vehicles available, dependant on class and skills. 
These range from atlas to tridents and other vehicles.

Base - With the introduction of turrets like the plasma v2, terraformers to give you ore and 
a series of walls and gates to build with. Basing has never been so much fun..

Koth - Want to be the last man standing? Here is your chance. You get frequent games giving 
each and everone a chance to be the best of the best and survive while all others fail.

New weapons, class structure and more, this zone gives you chance to experience things not 
found in other zones, while bringing in some of the best features around infantry.

Enjoy

Mode and Nod