

							~6Chambert’s Tournament Players Guide~6
								~1Zone Created by~1
 								 ~1Nite & Xelos~1
					~1Special thanks to Axidus, LooseCannon, Rage, Syco and everyone else~1

~6Preface to the Player~6
	Welcome to Chambert’s Tournament, in some sense it is a build upon the old Chambert’s Moon but say such a thing would not be 
totally honest. In order to play Chambert’s Tournament you do not need to read any of the guide but it will help understand some of the newer concepts. 
The storyline after this preface gives connection to the classes and many of the weapons of Chambert’s Tournament.

		~1Part 1- Storyline~1

		~1Part 2- Alien Classes~1

		~1Part 3- Human Classes~1

		~1Part 4- The Synthetic~1

	~6Part 1 - [Storyline]

	Lord Chambert, the noble leader realizes he needs to bring some forth some entertainment to his people so he decided to bring people from across the galaxy 
to compete in Chamberts moon. At first he used one of his compounds which did not suffice him although the competition brought soldiers, warriors from far 
and aliens near that live on the moon. He began investing money into a mega arena which was abruptly cut off when a war began on Chamberts Moon. Nobody 
even Lord Chambert is sure of who started the war but the Aliens that live on the moon began to act strange. 
	Aliens began to attack Chamberts’ people, killing them in droves. This was unspeakable since the aliens lived in peace due to the intelligent 
queens having control over the more primal warriors. Lord Chambert assembled his retainers across the moon and yet this still was not enough, the retainers
at first held them, and then they lost ground little by little. Lord Chambert grew suspicious of this enemy force which had non-alien forces, although 
few in numbers compared to Lord Chamberts’ forces they were augmented heavily by Alien forces. Finally there was no more ground left to lose, they were at 
the last bastion, the location where all the people of Chambert were huddled and scared. Hours before the capitulation of Chamberts’ military force hundreds 
of previous contestants and champions landed in Collective and Titan transports. Lord Chambert called for a massive blitz on the alien lines, pushing them 
back to the source of their control within a week of intense fighting. The source of control seemed to be a mountain fortress, the entrance large enough to 
fit ten Leviathans tread to tread. A daring yet ingenious maneuver by Lord Chambert proved successful although losing many men the battle drew within a mere 
100 yards of the entrance but moments before the Alien lines were broken a large explosion went off inside the mountain, collapsing the entrance. 
	The Aliens that were once under control reverted back to control of their queens, few simply stood there mindless unaware of what happened. 
Alien Queens arrived out of tunnels and began bringing their “pups” home. The mindless ones which must of lost their Queen were taken over by other Queens. 
Lord Chambert realizing the Aliens were now back to their old self was unsure of the future ahead but realized they must press on, the fragile trust between
his people and the Aliens has been damaged could it be repaired? Lord Chamberts economy was decimated by the war and a powerful aid entity known as the 
X Corporation began reconstruction. Lord Chambert also commissioned X Corp to finish the mega arena that began construction before the war broke out. 
	Now Lord Chambert can continue his tournaments and rebuild the most powerful entertainment business in the galaxy.

	~6Part 2 - Alien

			~4Why are there different types of aliens? 
		~2The Alien is now separated into multiple classes, this tailors to the different play styles and opens up a vast many of more. 
		This does not mean being a certain alien will lock you out to entire types of attacks. There are a few specialized attacks for 
		certain classes most of the attacks can be used by all the types of aliens. For example only the Scorcher has access to the highest 
		firebreath attacks, other aliens have access to most of the others though. See Aliens in the Skills Store (F11) for detailed information on each Alien class.

			~4Why are there attributes for the aliens?
		~2Again another new way to develop your alien in their own way! Each subsequent attribute point costs exponentially more. Attribute points are a requirement to using weapons and some skills of the aliens.  Most of the attributes have an effect on each alien, listed below are their effects.
		Strength attribute point increases your ability to carry. (+0.25 max kg)
		Spirituality attribute points increase your maximum energy. (+2 Max Energy)
		Agility attribute points increase your speed and thrust. (~.25% increase)
		Health attribute points increase maximum health. (+2 Max Health)
		Glands attribute points currently have no statistical effect.
		Flame attribute points currently have no statistical effect.

			~4Why are there so many versions of Alien attacks? (Store: Alien Evolutions Tab)
		~2There are different power levels of the traditional attacks (Acid Spit, Claw, Firebreath) from Chambert’s Moon. There is 2 different types of alien attacks of what I call major skills and minor skills and a few special skills. Major skills are skills that have 10 varying powers, minor skills tend to have only 3 power levels. Special skills vary as an example take the regeneration skill, there are 5 different levels of it.

			~4Alien armor and utility items? (Store: Alien Body Evolutions Tab)
		~2Alien armor is limited as to what an alien can have equipped. An alien can either get overall protection which is represented in the scales or the alien can get the different types of skins. Skins specialize in certain areas of protection or give abilities. An alien is not limited to just either one skin or scale, they can also get chemical and mental protection, these protections are low compared to the protection that humans can get but this represents two of the vital weaknesses of the aliens.






	~6Part 3 - Humans

			~4Why so many more human classes?
		~2The human classes that were once in Chambert’s Moon are now categories within Chambert’s Tournament. Some of the
 		categories have the same name for a specific class (example: Skirmisher Category, Skirmisher class), this is prevent confusion sometimes. 
		The different classes each have a little bit of history behind them that connects loosely to the storyline. Each class has specialties 
		and different capabilities ever so slightly which suits to certain play styles. 

			~4Why cant I choose one of the human classes in a section?
		~2There is 2 classes that are immediately selectable from the start, the third class which requires a generous amount of experience before 
		choosing the unique class within that class section. A key piece of information is that the 3rd class that requires exp is not superior 
		to the other 2, it is merely different play style. Usually that 3rd class does not have access to the special weapons of the other 2 and 
		is more of a balance between the two. Sometimes that special class has a play style totally different and unique and may be undesirable to many players.

			~4Armor seems complex what do I buy?
		~2Armor seems complex at first yes but it really isn’t. Armor is purchased in a type of modular system; you can purchase 1 of each Cuirass, Pauldron, Greaves, Helmet, Gauntlets. Altogether is technically a complete armor, and you don’t have to buy all the same weight. Armor is separated into different weight sets, Heavy, Medium, Light and Ultra light; if your class lets you as a heavy you could purchase a Heavy cuirass and all medium armor. This lets you cut back on weight in certain areas, remember though that will cause some armor capability loss.

			~4What the hell, three cloaks, stealths, anti warps, anti cloaks, anti stealths, rechargers, batteries… its hard to choose and tons of weapons!?!
		~2This is an important new concept within CT, we wanted to give more choices for the players so every player has an opportunity to be different. All the new weapons there really isn’t the best of a certain weapon in most areas, the upgraded version of weapons just do different things. Perhaps you want a faster rate of fire or lower energy cost, the choice is yours and yours alone. When you meet an enemy on the battlefield you may not know exactly what you are going up against and if that happens then we succeeded! 

	~6Part 4 – Synthetic

			~4What’s the deal with this new class?
		~2The Synthetic is a new class which requires cash in order to progress, experience is worthless to the Synthetic. The Synthetic like the Alien is a hard class to play as in the beginning but is very rewarding when the greatest upgrades are purchased. The Synthetic is specialized for using the X Corporation weapons but they are limited to some non X Corp weapons as well. They have low energy so those are not the best weapons for them.

			~4Where do I upgrade my Synthetic I can’t purchase the skills in the Skills Store (F11).
		~2Of course you can’t, just ignore those skills you need to purchase upgrades through (F10) store. The first thing you need to purchase is the Body Mark 1, this will open up the other Mark 1 upgrades. After purchasing all the minor upgrades you can thus go onto Mark 2 body and upgrades and then onto the final Mark 3. 		
		
	~6Please NOTE!!! Do not miss purchase upgrades by hitting buy on something your not ready to purchase, this will take your money and you will not receive anything!

			~4What do all the upgrades do, I can’t wear armor as a synthetic and I’m slow!
			
				~2Alright each upgrade does something different here they are…
				
				1. Body: Body upgrades are for armor, better body better armor, it as well gives you more Hitpoints at higher Marks.
				2. Arms: Arms allow you to carry more weight and use better weapons.
				3. Legs: Better legs the faster you go. Mark 3 legs are fast!
				4. Brain: Brain gives some rotation bonuses but it also gives psi protection, and is the only way to defend against psi attacks.

			~4Can human classes use X Corp weapons that are usually used by Synthetic?
		Yes they can, the human classes that require experience are the classes that can typically use the X Corp weapons.

